# Greenhouse-Gases-GHG-Emission-Climate-Change-
**Introduction**

Global climate change has already had observable effects on the environment. As a result of climate change, droughts have become more frequent, weather patterns have been disturbed, natural disasters are more likely, the ozone layer has been damaged, and global inequality has grown. There is loss of ice, accelerated sea-level rise, glaciers have shrunk, ice on rivers and lakes is melting earlier. Scientists have high confidence that global temperatures will continue to rise for decades to come, majorly due to greenhouse gases produced by human activities. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which includes more than 1,300 scientists from the United States and other countries, forecasts a temperature rise of 2.5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit over the next century. According to the IPCC, the extent of climate change effects on individual regions will vary over time and with the ability of different societal and environmental systems to mitigate or adapt to change.

This report on Climate Change responds to some general questions about Climate Change. The report addresses the greenhouse gases (GHG) emission in the world from the 1990s, Land-Ocean temperature index historically, change in the area of forest from the 1990s. This report used data from reliable sources as FAO STAT, CAIT, GISS NASA, World Bank. The purpose of this report is to answer two questions that I aim to explore, firstly, the Economic and Environment indicator for the 15 countries with the highest GHG emissions per capita. Second, I want to examine the top sectors that are responsible for high emissions in these top 15 countries.
My motivation for climate change pushed me to stretch and had made me spend lots of time on this project. I stretched myself after posting a few easy research questions to examine the questions better and reformulate them. Exploring the reliable sites and dataset connecting them, and then trying both tools that we learned in this course, to see which is a better fit for my visualization. This course taught us how to make good visualization and I wanted to avoid any misrepresentation or poor visualization. I have tested different concepts before finalizing these questions and then break them down into manageable components. I got solicit feedback from my friends which pushed me to improve my project. The visualization has been reframed several times to make it perfect for the questions by using multiple data sources.
 
**Methodology**
 
The following sources of reliable data are used to investigate my research questions about climate change and emission-
 https://data.giss.nasa.gov/gistemp/, https://www.climatewatchdata.org/ghg-emissions?source=CAIT, https://www.kaggle.com/andradaolteanu/country-mapping-iso-continentregion, http://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/GF, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.CD, all of them are reliable and very helpful to carry forward my research. For formatting the data appropriately for the visualization, I have used MS Excel and the Power BI Query. These tools were the most useful. I have used tableau and tableau prep builder all along but for this kind of data I found Power BI more meaningful, so I switched to that. I started by searching and exploring data on the emission of greenhouse gases GHG I came across the Climate Watch website which was very helpful and provide me emission data. For the first question I also needed the data for the forestland, so I explored FAO forest data, which is again a very reliable source. Now, I also need to answer the general query that is the climate change real for that the most convincing chart I can create is to show them the mean temperature of the land-ocean historically till now for that I have used the GISS NASA site which is again the best place to collect this kind of data. I have used GDP per Capita data for comparisons which are taken from the World Bank site. I have selected the process of selecting the top 15 countries for this analysis using the emission per capita not emission per GDP because It would make it more reliable as the reporting of GDP are different every country has something different formula to calculate the GDP for that nation and which could not lead to the best selection that I want. Then trying data on Power BI editing the columns and rectifying the null values using the Power BI query. Integrating the data tables and then creating a visual presentation that is both meaningful and convincing. In limitation, Although I was not able to get data for all countries, some of them have missing fields, so I had to get rid of those countries. Otherwise, everything went smoothly.

**Analysis:**
See the POWERBI report for this.

**Conclusion:**
This report helps us to identify the indicators of climate change. I took a sample of the top 15 emitters of GHG and did some research analysis on that. In the above research, we see the rise in mean temperature of the earth, the decrease in the forest land. Increase of the GHG emissions. The most contributing sectors and sub-sectors for the emission which give rise to the climate change. I can explore more research questions like how emission and the shrinking of Glaciers are the indicators of climate change. If I had more data about the inequality and climate change relation, I would have explored how climate change increases social inequality. I can also research the sea level rise and the mean temperature rise of the world.



